docs: add snapcraft.yaml reference (#5421)
canonical/snapcraft: docs/reference/snapcraft-yaml.rst

Reviewer: Are we able to add `package-repositories`? I don't recall if there was some groundwork to complete before we could.

Author: It doesn't have any info attached to it, but I put the directive in there so that it will populate whenever we get around to documenting the craft app models.

https://github.com/canonical/snapcraft/pull/5421/commits/f42b363320603021670ce9de364ee1644ff80508

snapcraft.yaml
==============

This page provides brief descriptions and examples for each key that can be included
in a snap's project file.

Top-level keys

> --------------

Author: Any feedback on the ordering of these fields?

Reviewer: Alphabetical is my preference because this is a reference. It's nice to use right-hand nav bar to find a particular term alphabetically rather than having to read every entry looking for it.

These seem to be ordered logically.  As far as a logical ordering is concerned, I think this is well ordered.

.. kitbash-field:: craft_application.models.project.Project description

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project adopt_info

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project type

.. kitbash-field:: craft_application.models.project.Project base

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project build_base

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project grade

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project confinement

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project source_code

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project contact

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project website

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project issues

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project donation

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project compression

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project icon

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project layout

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project passthrough

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project assumes

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project slots

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project lint

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project epoch

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project system_usernames

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project environment

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project build_packages

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project build_snaps

> .. kitbash-field:: project.Project ua_services

Author: > `.. kitbash-field:: project.Project ua_services`

The example for this field doesn't render properly on this version of kitbash. I'll update it when I release the fixes I made.

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project provenance

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project platforms

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project architectures

> .. kitbash-field:: project.Project apps

Reviewer: Is it possible to tie this in with the `app` sections below?

It's confusing to have a definition of the `apps` key [here](https://canonical-snapcraft--5421.com.readthedocs.build/en/5421/reference/snapcraft-yaml.html#apps) and [here](https://canonical-snapcraft--5421.com.readthedocs.build/en/5421/reference/snapcraft-yaml.html#app-keys).

The same is true for the other sub-models here: parts, hooks, components, plugs.

Author: One of the extension's current limitations is that the nested rST can't reference any targets in the docs. This is because each of the descriptions gets parsed as its own docutils document before the child nodes are appended to the actual page. I don't have a good way around this at the moment, but it is definitely an improvement I want to make at some point.

Reviewer: Makes sense, thanks

.. kitbash-field:: craft_application.models.project.Project parts

> .. kitbash-field:: project.Project hooks

Reviewer: These should be similar to the apps, like `hooks.<hook-type>.passthrough`.

side note: `<hook-type>` may be more precise than `<hook-name>` since there is a finite set of hooks.  I don't think the list of hook types is in our project model, so adding the types is out of scope.

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project components

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project plugs

App keys
--------

> The ``apps`` key and its values in a snap's project file detail the applications and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ``apps`` keys and its values in a snap's project file detail the applications and
```

Author: I believe the original is correct in this case, since it's referring to a single key named `apps`.

services that a snap wants to expose, including how they're executed and which resources
they can access.

.. kitbash-model:: project.App
    :prepend-name: apps.<app-name>

Part keys
---------

The main building blocks of a snap are called parts. They are used to declare pieces of
code that will be pulled into your snap package. The ``parts`` keys and its values in
a snap's project file detail how parts are configured and built.

> .. kitbash-model:: craft_parts.parts.PartSpec

Reviewer: Are these missing detail because we haven't written anything for craft-parts [here](https://github.com/canonical/craft-parts/blob/5418aa74c151570efe537d301e4fcc2186d33ac6/craft_parts/parts.py#L47)?

Author: Yup, I made a follow-up ticket to document the PartSpec model. :+1:

    :prepend-name: parts.<part-name>

Socket keys
-----------

.. kitbash-model:: project.Socket

Hook keys
---------

.. kitbash-model:: project.Hook

Component keys
--------------

.. kitbash-model:: project.Component

Content plug keys
-----------------

> .. kitbash-model:: project.ContentPlug

Author: What prefixes/suffixes should I add for these keys?

Reviewer: * components: `components.<component-name>.summary`
* sockets: should be underneath `apps.<app-name>.sockets`
* hooks: this is used twice, once as a top-level key and once under `components.<component-name>.hooks`
* content plugs: should be a top level key, `plugs`

snapcraft.yaml
==============

> This page provides brief descriptions and examples for each key that can be included
> in a snap's project file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This reference describes the purpose, usage, and examples of all available keys in a
snap's project file, ``snapcraft.yaml``.

For keys that refer to file and directory locations, paths are always relative to the
snap's file system, not the host.
```

Top-level keys
--------------

> The top-level keys and values in snapcraft.yaml provide the snap build process, and the
> store, with the overarching details of a snap.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The top-level keys dictate the snap's packaging information and the essential details of
how it builds.
```

Author: https://github.com/canonical/snapcraft/pull/5421/commits/c613e9171d53ff053b5ef0624d987e290e842c47

Top-level details include a snap's name, version and description, alongside operational
values such as its confinement level and supported architectures.

> .. kitbash-field:: project.Project name

Reviewer 4: Rather than using the workaround in `conf.py`, couldn't you set:

```suggestion
.. currentmodule:: snapcraft.models.project

.. kitbash-field:: Project name
```

Author: That would probably work if I didn't implement the extension to expect a module and class in the first arg :facepalm:

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project issues

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project donation

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project compression

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project icon

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project layout

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project passthrough

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project assumes

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project slots

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project lint

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project epoch

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project system_usernames

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project environment

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project build_packages

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project build_snaps

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project ua_services

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project provenance

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project platforms

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project architectures

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project apps

.. kitbash-field:: craft_application.models.project.Project parts

.. kitbash-field:: craft_application.models.project.Project package_repositories

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project hooks

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project components

.. kitbash-field:: project.Project plugs

App keys
--------

> The ``apps`` key and its values in a snap's project file detail the applications and
> services that a snap wants to expose, including how they're executed and which resources
> they can access.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ``apps`` key declares the programs and services that a snap operates on the host,
and details how they're executed and which resources they can access.
```

Author: https://github.com/canonical/snapcraft/pull/5421/commits/c613e9171d53ff053b5ef0624d987e290e842c47

.. kitbash-model:: project.App
    :prepend-name: apps.<app-name>

Part keys
---------

> The main building blocks of a snap are called parts. They are used to declare pieces of
> code that will be pulled into your snap package. The ``parts`` keys and its values in
> a snap's project file detail how parts are configured and built.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ``parts`` key and its values declares the snap's :ref:`parts <explanation-parts>`
and details how they're built.
```

Author: https://github.com/canonical/snapcraft/pull/5421/commits/c613e9171d53ff053b5ef0624d987e290e842c47
